Paul is in Rome.
He's in prison, and he knows
that his life is almost over.
That's the context now in which we read.
He looks back on God's goodness
to him, and he looks forward
to the dangers and the hope.
The Lord stood by me, gave me strength
to proclaim the message fully.
Well, it is, um, awesome to
get the opportunity to, to
come up and preach God's word.
Um, you know, it's something that I, I,
I think it's easy to take for granted as
a, as a pastor of a church, this is what
you're expected to do every single week
is just come up and preach another message
and come up and preach another message.
And Mondays are always us unusual
because Mondays it's kind of like
taking a deep breath and going,
man, that was a great weekend.
What am I gonna speak about this week?
Good news is that as a church,
we really value going through
books of the Bible, and that's
what we're in the midst of today.
Uh, we've been walking through the
book of second Timothy, and I say we've
been walking through it because we
kind of took a break during Christmas.
Then we kind of came back in January
and did a few different things, but
we're back in second Timothy chapter
three, uh, starting in verse 10.
And, uh, we've really just enjoyed, um,
over the last year, probably year and a
half, we've actually walked through the
book of First Timothy and we're working
through the book of second Timothy.
And by the end of this month, God willing,
we will be done with the book of second
Timothy and then we'll go somewhere
else and we'll do something different.
But, um, this book has really been great.
As we've been walking through it,
we've really been listening, um, from
a wise person called Paul the Apostle.
Paul has been speaking to, we,
we kind of quoted this way, his
true son in the faith, Timothy.
And when you look at Paul and Timothy's
relationship, Paul and Timothy's
relationship was really close.
Like I would even say this, that the
Paul was Timothy's spiritual father, and
Timothy was, um, Paul's spiritual son.
They were truly connected and Paul
truly cared about Timothy and he
had brought Timothy along with him
in all of his missionary journeys
and all the things that he did.
And Paul knew that he was
coming to the end of his life.
And this is where he
is pinning this letter.
He's coming to the end of his life
and he's got a few more things that
he wants to impart wisdom to Timothy,
um, and even to Timothy's church, you
know, esis and, and when I begin to
think about this letter, you know, a
lot of times we can read these letters
and we can go, oh, that's great for
Timothy, but what does this mean for us?
And I.
The God's word is timeless.
I dunno if you do.
I believe God's word is timeless,
which means this is, as Paul
speaking, he can speak to this.
Inspiring Hope Church.
Right.
And I believe that he's
continued to do that today.
But some of the themes that
we've seen is Paul is encouraging
Timothy to not be timid.
Right.
To, to stand up and to remember his faith
and to remember the foundation in which
he had built it on, which was on Christ.
And to, to join him in the suffering
even though it was difficult and to,
to, to pour into other people who,
so who can bear the burdens with him.
And, and even lately we've been learning
this, that Timothy has been learning.
And we're being reminded of all
of the, the false teachers, and we
didn't say this, the imitators that
are trying to be godly people, but
these godly people are actually.
Ungodly people that are representing God
in, in, in a way that doesn't honor him.
In this past week, when we talked
about in chapter three, and I just
kinda wanna catch you up on this, in
chapter three we talked about these
18 different characteristics, 18,
that, that Paul listed of all these
people that are living ungodly lives.
But claim to be spiritual and they're
influencing the church in a negative way.
They're drawing people
away from the faith.
And so he basically says,
beware of these people.
And so we learned about these
18 characteristics and we
dove deep into them last week.
And it was interesting, uh, that many,
if not all of them, were factored
and focused in on selfishness.
And I've really been challenged all of
us to consider this idea as, we don't
need to look at these 18 characteristics
as those people out there, but to really
consider, could it be these people
in here that are actually living out
these characteristics that are ungodly?
And it was really a challenge to
repentance and to evaluation and, and
to, to make sure that we're avoiding
these things in our lives so that they
don't distract us from the mission.
But now Paul's going to transition
and finish up this chapter three
to remind Timothy of a couple of
things, and he's gonna remind him
of really what Paul did, right?
Timothy followed Paul.
So he is saying, Hey, remember everything
that you saw me do, and he's gonna rem
remind him again of the false teachers.
And then he's gonna re tell him to
remember the foundation of his faith.
And, and in all of this, I
want you to see this today.
All of this is, is in
this idea of Paul value.
the word of God so much that he
lived it out and he was challenging
Timothy to value the word of God
so that he could live it out.
And that's our challenge today.
And so I, I, I love being able to
engage everybody that's in the room.
So I wanna ask this question, what
do you value most in your life?
When you, when you think about your
day-to-day life, what are some of the top
maybe five things that you value the most?
You ready?
You got something in your mind?
All right, go.
What, what do you value the most?
Family?
And, okay, what else?
What God.
See, see, you're the, you're
the Christian in the room.
Good job.
You did it.
What'd you say?
Sleep.
I knew that was gonna be on there.
Let's get two more.
What do you value the most in life?
Safety, health.
See, these are, these are all things
that we would say we value so much
that they are a priority in our lives.
But here's what I begin to think about
that word value before we, we really dive.
When I think about value means, it means
so much to me that I will prioritize it.
That if I focus on, if I put
it as a top priority in my
life, it adds value to my life.
Now, the challenge and the question
that I want you to begin to answer now,
and I pray that if, if you answer in
a different way, that by the end of
the day you'll value it differently.
Do you value the word of God that way?
Do you value the word of
God as one of your top?
That it is the word of God that speaks
to you, that guides and directs you, that
corrects you and teaches you and rebukes
you, and trains you for righteousness.
And we're gonna read this today.
I, I, I, I don't know if, if it, if you do
value the word of God, but I pray that by
the end of today, that you will value the
word of God as the most valuable thing.
And that through that
God will transform you.
That God will use you to grow
you to know him more and more.
And.
So let's read the word of God
today, second Timothy chapter
three, starting in verse 10.
Again, this is coming off after Paul
shared all the 18 characteristics
of these false teachers that
were leading people astray.
Here's what he says, but you, Timothy,
you have followed my teaching, my
conduct, my purpose, my faith, my
patience, my love, my endurance, along
with the persecutions and suffer.
That came to me in Antioch.
I iconium and lira what
pur persecutions I endured.
Yet the Lord rescued me from all of them.
In fact, all who want to live a godly
life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,
evil people and imposters will become
worse, deceiving and being deceived.
But as for you, you, Timothy, you
continue in what you've learned
firmly and firmly believed.
You know those who taught?
And you know that from infancy, infancy,
that you have known the sacred scriptures,
which are able to give you wisdom for
salvation through faith and Christ Jesus.
All scripture is inspired by God and is
profitable for teaching and for rebuking,
and for correcting, and for training and
righteousness so that the man of God may
be complete equipped for every good work.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray that your words
speak to our hearts and transforms our.
In Jesus name.
Amen.
So whenever I look at this, and just so
you know, I continue to preach from a
practical standpoint and the fact that
I, I am pretty dumb when it comes to
like studying things and doing things.
And so I kind of go at this very basic.
So I'm gonna walk through it again the
way that I think through scripture.
And so the first thing that I see in this
scripture is Paul just reminding Timothy
that he has seen him live out his purpose.
This is Paul saying, you've seen
me live out my purpose, Timothy.
You've seen me do this
despite all these things.
And so when we walk through these
first couple of verses, we're gonna
see what Timothy followed Paul
in what Timothy saw Paul live.
Like, let me, let me ask this question.
Is there there people in your
life that have influenced you
by the way that they've lived?
In a good way, hopefully.
Right?
If you can think of those people, number
one, I encourage you to go tell them.
Thank you.
I really, I really do.
There's people that are influencing you
every day that are modeling for you how
to follow Jesus and live for Christ.
They need to know that you see them.
But see, that was the same thing for
Timothy, is he's looking at this.
He's saying, man, you have made a
difference and, and I have made a
difference in your life, Timothy.
So look at these things.
Right?
So Paul was that person for Timothy,
and, and when we think about.
When he ended his life, Paul, he, he
wanted to finish with this statement,
and we'll even talk about this next
week in sim, second Timothy four seven.
Paul says this, I have
fought the good fight.
I have finished the race,
I have kept the faith.
And this is why Timothy need to be right
minded of these things because he need
to be challenged with those same things.
So as we look at this in, in verse
10, . He's saying, Timothy, don't get
distracted by all those false teachers.
Right?
That we're living in a worldly way.
But remember how you followed me?
So how did he follow him?
He followed his teaching.
What did Paul teach about?
The only way you'll know what Paul
taught about is if you're in the word
of God, and you see how Paul taught.
Paul taught that Jesus
Christ came to save sinner.
Paul taught that Jesus Christ
came to die in your place.
He came to serve not to be.
He came because we could
not save ourselves.
Paul consistently and continually
suffered for the sake of Christ.
You don't have to wonder what Paul taught.
So when we think, what did Timothy learn?
Paul teaching.
He taught about Jesus.
And then he says this.
He says, he followed my conduct.
So Timothy followed Paul's conduct.
Here is the critical piece.
Paul, before Christ
taught a lot of things.
Paul after Christ lived his life in
such a way that modeled what he taught.
Does that make sense what I'm saying?
His conduct backed up what he taught.
Paul was really smart before Christ.
He knew the scriptures, but
he didn't live the scriptures.
He did not understand them so
much so that he lived them.
See, that's so critical that the people in
which we follow don't just talk the talk.
They walk the walk.
You know what I'm talking about, right?
You ever heard anybody ever seem like
they always had this really like,
big story about all these things that
they do and you're like, yeah, right.
You know, and the reason why is
they wanna become that, but they,
they don't know how to become that.
And, and Paul wasn't that person.
Paul spoke it and then he lived it.
He backed it up.
And so just some examples, he
didn't teach about sacrifice.
Paul lived it, right?
He didn't live in luxury.
Paul gave more than he ever received.
He worked so that he would not be
a burden to someone else, and he
was a servant, not a celebrity.
You look at Paul, he consistently
lived out what he taught.
Then he says this, and I love this.
He said, Timothy, you
have followed my purpose.
You have seen me live out my purpose.
I, I, I want you to hear this.
Our church is here to help you
discover your purpose through
a relationship with Jesus.
Just like.
It's simple that we have all
been called to a purpose so
much greater than ourselves.
And I love this here.
What was Paul's purpose?
Acts 2024 says this, but I consider,
and this is, this is Paul basically
saying this, I have considered my
life of no value to myself for my
purpose is the finish my course and
the ministry I received from the Lord
Jesus to testify to the gospel of God's.
Paul went so far in Romans 1520 to
say this, it is my ambition to preach
the gospel where Christ was not known.
So when we look at Paul's purpose, Paul's
purpose was not for himself anymore.
I, I don't want you to miss this
after he gave his life to Christ.
Paul understood in his first part here,
but I consider my life of no value.
Timothy Saul, Paul modeled that
and he didn't just model it.
So Timothy would just say, Hey, great job.
He modeled it for Timothy to follow
after, and then I'm, we're not even
just getting started here, but in that
idea as a follower of Jesus, do you
live in such a way that is sacrificial
for others, not just about yourself?
And it's kind of that idea are, are you
coming into church and making sure you
get your seat because it's all about
your seat and your place And I don't,
no, we don't have that cuz we're in a new
spot, so you don't really have a seat.
So you're probably figuring,
so this is a challenge.
Do you move.
So that you don't have a seat.
Okay.
Um, so Paul didn't waiver on his purpose
despite what was happening to him.
Right?
Then he says this, he said,
you have followed my faith.
See, Romans 10 17 says this faith comes
by hearing and by hearing the word of God.
Let, let me just ask this quick
question here, if that scripture is
true, how valuable is the word of God
to you in order for you to have faith?
Anybody?
Faith comes by hearing.
And hearing by the word of God.
And so we understand the word of
God is wrote down in the Bible,
but it is God speaking to you.
That is wow.
Wow.
Faith comes by hearing,
hearing by the word of God.
I remember quoting this several years
ago and I continued to quote it.
Faith is seeing what God sees,
even though I can't see it.
There's many times when we were reading
God's word and we say, God, I can't
physically see this, but God, you are
doing something amazing and, and what
I've learned over and over again when I
understand that faith is seeing what God
sees, even though I can't see it today.
I actually have gotten to see my faith
three years ago of this church planting.
That's the cool part.
In those days when I had
faith, even though I couldn't
see it, God could see it Now.
My trust was in him.
Today I get to experience it.
That's true.
Faith.
Faith in God.
Then he says this, right?
Follow my, you followed my
patience, and then I'll even
kind of jump down a little bit.
He said, you also followed my endurance.
Really?
What does that mean?
He says, you followed my long suffering.
I, I really want you to lean into this.
. Paul endured suffering and persecution,
yet he was patient for God to work.
I, I think I need to hear that today.
Just can I, can I sit
with you a little bit?
I'm gonna sit down.
I need some patience so you guys
know I haven't perfected this.
I'm listening with you.
God is speaking to me.
I'm gonna say this again.
He said, Timothy, you followed
my patience and my endurance.
This long suffering.
Why would Paul do that?
Why?
Because Paul showed patience
to people so that he could
demonstrate the gospel to them.
Patience.
It's not about us, it's about others.
He wasn't quick to write them off.
And when you think about
Paul, he talks about this.
Paul actually said what was
happening to him was the benefit of
the advancement of the gospel when
he was chained to a prison guard.
He says, this is great.
The prison guard can't go anywhere.
I get to preach Jesus
to him and they change.
These guys like have to rotate out
and I get to preach Jesus again.
Why unchain me?
The gospel's actually
spreading perspective.
Guys, our perspective is.
But God's perspective is not, remember
that our perspective is limited,
but God's perspective is not DePaul
loved people despite the hatred
and persecution they had given him.
He followed Jesus' example, and even
in Ephesians 4 32, he says this, be
kind and compassionate to one another,
forgiving one another just as Christ, um,
or just as God has also forgave you in.
So Paul modeled that to Timothy
and he modeled that to us.
And the last one, he says, you
followed by persecutions and suffering.
Here's just some examples
of what Paul went through.
Paul went into prison.
He was whipped, he was
beaten, he was stoned.
And there was many, many, many, many
harsh things said to him, he suffered
for our benefit so that we could
see his example of following Christ.
And so what is persecution?
It's when we suffer for the sake of
Christ, and it can be different things
and it's hard for us to understand.
Imprisonment for our faith
looks like in the United States.
It's hard for us to understand
what persecution looks like
in in the example to Paul.
But if we think about this, there's
going to be times in which you stand up
for your faith when your friends, your
family, and your community question why.
Why do you live in such a way that you do?
And Paul said he did it for the sake of
the gospel so that it could be spread.
And what I love about all of this,
it almost sounds like Timothy, you
remember I've had a pretty rough life.
But then he says this and he says, and
yet the Lord rescued me from all of them.
See, God is faithful.
God is always present.
He will always help us
in our times of need.
So Timothy followed and
saw Paul do all of this.
So why would Paul remind Timothy
about all that he saw him go
through and how he lived his life?
Why would we need to remember?
Verse 12 tells us that answer.
Here's what he says.
He says, in fact, all who want
to live a God life in Christ
Jesus will be persecuted.
Just so you know, not many of us
wanted to show up to church today
to hear that question, that that
statement, all who want to live a godly
life in Christ will be persecuted,
not if maybe sometimes it you.
What does this mean?
Am am I a godly person if
I've given my life to Jesus?
Yes.
If you are a follower of Jesus,
you will suffer persecution.
Paul knew this for Timothy
and he knew this for us.
And here's what he's saying.
You've saw my life.
You saw how I've suffered persecution
and how the Lord has sustained me.
And really what he would even say,
and this is the picture Paul's
saying to Timothy, you've saw
all the people that I've impact.
Who have given their lives to
Jesus, who have been forgiven of
their sins, have been transformed.
You've seen all this happen
and the Lord sustained me.
Now you go and do likewise.
He wanted to prepare him.
I'll just tell you this, if I know what
I'm going into, I'm better equipped
and more likely to succeed than if
I'm shocked than what I'm going into.
We are going into, just so you
know, we have been as a church,
we've been going into a city.
Into our communities, into our jobs,
into our lives, to fight the world will
be times that we suffer persecution,
yes, but the Lord will sustain us.
And so we should be challenged and
inspired by Timothy or Paul's life.
And I believe Timothy, Saul, Paul value
the word of God and value following
the living God and how he would rescue
him, and he could do that for us.
So then he takes just verse 13, and
this is what the fun part of it.
He's been consistently talking about
these false teachers, but he, he brings
it up again in verse 13 and he says This
evil people and imposters will become
worse deceiving and being deceived.
So it's like, hey, just, just so
you know, those evil people that
I just got done talking about,
they're gonna get worse in your day.
That's like almost 2000 years ago.
He's telling Timothy they're gonna
get worse for you than they were for.
What do you think is
gonna be worse for us?
You think it's gonna be worse
than Timothy I I think it can be.
I think it can be.
Now this is maybe taking us
a little bit of a side note.
I think it can be if we don't just
learn the word, but we live the word.
Because if we don't live the word,
what are they gonna persecute us about?
We may have a lot of knowledge about
what it means to follow Jesus, but as
we live, the word persecution will.
and so we know that.
And so these evil people and
imposters will always be there, is
basically what he's saying, right?
He explained all the characteristics
in verses one through nine, and
I think this is so critical.
Don't miss this piece.
I wanna go back and read verse
five of, of chapter three here,
and he says, holding to the form
of godliness but denying its power.
Avoid these people.
There are people that will claim
godliness, but will be teaching the truth.
And these are people that we
have to avoid their imposters.
They're trying to act
like they are spiritual.
. And so I think that is difficult to
know that it won't get easier, right?
Even he's saying this,
it won't get easier.
Easier, but he says they're gonna
deceive people because they're deceived.
And I think the challenge to us is
the only way we'll know if we're gonna
be deceived is to know the truth.
I've said this over and over
again before, but how do they know
when we talk about counterfeit.
They don't study all the
different counterfeit money.
They studied the real thing so
that when the counterfeit comes,
bam, I know it's not real.
Paul is prioritizing the word of
God because it is valuable to him.
He's challenging Timothy to value the word
of God because it is valuable for him.
And, and, and so I, I know many of
us in this room probably haven't
rock climbed before, but as I begin
to just think about some different
things, I think about rock climbing.
Our anchoring points when we rock
climb are important because guess what?
If one slip without an
anchoring point were.
Unless you're like one foot off the
ground, maybe you're not, but you
know, more or less it's a disaster.
We'd be crazy for not putting
in these anchoring points.
Here's what I would say.
Living a life without having the
word of God as an anchor to secure us
alongside the way would be pretty stupid.
Whenever I say the statement, is
the word of God valuable to you, I
hope you're beginning to say, yeah,
the word of God is valuable because
it's gonna protect me and it's gonna
guide me, and it's gonna encourage.
It's gonna give me wisdom.
So then he goes back to this, right?
He says, now, Timothy, continue
in what you have learned.
Continue in what you have learned.
So we see here in verse 14, he says,
but as for you, continue in what
you've learned and firmly believed.
You know those who taught you,
and you know that from infancy.
You have known the sacred
script scriptures from salvation
through faith in Jesus Christ.
All scripture is inspired by God and
is profitable for teaching, rebuking,
correcting, training righteousness so that
the man of God may be complete equipped
for every good work despite all the evil.
Here's what he's saying.
Despite all the evil Timothy
that is around you, You continue
in what you firmly believed.
Now, as I was listening to this, and
again, I love looking at scripture
and, and, and saying, okay, he's
speaking to Timothy as he's speaking
to me, and I stopped when I read this
because if I read this, Hey, Ben,
continuing what you have learned,
what if what I've learned is wrong?
I can't take this scripture literal
to me for Paul to say, Hey, Ben,
continue what you've learned.
If.
Learning my knowledge, my wisdom
that I have received is not a
godly wisdom from the word of God.
So I wanna caution us from Paul
saying directly to you, continue
on living how you're living.
So what I want us to do is I
wanna say, how did Timothy grow up
living and what is Paul challenging
him to continue living in?
And now let's apply that
to continue living in.
Does that make sense?
I wanna make sure, cuz I even challenged.
. So now get ahead of myself and go, oh, I'm
just gonna continue the way I'm living.
No, I'm gonna see how Timothy lived
and then I'm gonna continue in that.
So it's important when we look at this.
So how did Timothy continue to live?
So first thing I want us to see here
is he says, remember who taught you,
remember who taught you Well, we
know that Paul taught him, right?
Paul taught him.
That was a simple one.
But if you go back to verses four
and five, in second Timothy, it says
that his grandmother and his mother
taught him since he was a baby.
They were godly people in his life.
They taught him the scriptures.
As it says.
They poured into him.
They prayed for him, they brought him.
Whenever Paul was coming around and
speaking, whenever Paul invited him to go
on a missionary journey, they sent him.
This was something that Paul was saying,
continue in this continuing living the
way in which you had been grown up.
Right?
So what truth did they teach him?
The word of God, which gave
him, and I think this is so.
The word of God gives us
wisdom and knowledge of the
salvation through Jesus Christ.
I, I, I think it's sometimes we get this,
just so you know, I, I, I love the deeper
works of the scripture where we learn like
about ourselves and how God's designed
us and all these different things,
and just about creation and the fall.
I love all those things, but if
we miss the most critical piece
of the word of God, it is to
reveal salvation in Jesus Christ.
If we don't give our lives to Christ,
if we don't experience that first, the
rest of it is, is almost meaningless
because we'll just begin to try to
change ourselves to become better people.
The really, it's to know Christ
and so he was pointing him, and I
love this, even Timothy, he knows,
has given his life to Christ.
He points him back to his
salvation, and, and I guys don't
miss that foundation of Christ.
When he says, remember that it brings
salvation, so without the truth of the.
, no one would know how to be saved.
That's why it's important, right?
The Bible was reading one day
is the Bible is like a mirror.
It reminds us of our condition.
And so it's like waking up
just like I did this morning.
My hair was a mess.
I did take a shower, right?
But, and I'm like, man, if I went out in
this condition, it looks pretty rough.
So when we're in the word
of God, it reminds us of our
condition and our need for Christ.
And so he.
Timothy to say, Hey, look,
in the word of God, remind,
remember, of your need for Jesus.
But then in verse 16, he now begins
to even expand this even more.
He says, all scripture is inspired by God.
See, that's why we call ourselves
inspiring Hope Church, because we're
inspired by the word of God, right?
I've said this over and over again.
As we are inspired by the word
of God, we will inspire others.
We will have nothing to inspire
others by without the word of God,
without the inspiration of the holy.
And that's why we say we
prioritize the word of God.
So it is inspired by God.
And so this means this.
It is God breathed.
When we read the word, it
is God speaking to you.
I heard somebody say this once.
I wish God would just speak to me.
You know what somebody
said he already did.
Open up your Bible and begin to read and
you'll hear him speak loud and clear.
I'm gonna say that again.
If you're ever wondering, God, speak to.
open up the word of God and he
will speak because he already did.
That's the beautiful picture.
I mean, I, that's cool.
I mean, that's just me.
I, I, I think that's
really, really cool, right?
So Paul says this, and this is
where, um, I like things that are
profitable and valuable for me.
I ask that question,
what's valuable to you?
And so he says,  it inspired
by God, and it is profitable.
For you, Timothy, this
is valuable for you.
It adds value.
I heard people say, sleep.
I'll just tell you.
If I don't eat and I don't
sleep, I'm pretty hangry.
So I think that those two
things are valuable for me.
So I do them.
I eat, I sleep.
When I think about the word of
God, I wanna think of it in this.
It is so valuable for me.
And so what is the word
of God valuable for?
Let's just walk through this
pretty quickly for teaching.
This makes sense, Doug.
The word of God's gonna teach us
who God is, what God has done for
us and what God has called us to do.
I'm gonna say this again.
God's word is there for teaching
about who God is, what God has
done for us, and who God has called
us to be, to fulfill our purpose.
Here's the fun part.
I know nobody wants to see this one.
The word of God's there for rebuke.
You ever rebuked someone in your life?
Maybe your child, your dog,
family member, friend, you maybe.
I don't know that stuff.
Um, so rebuking, let me, let me give
this, I like to be able to kind of,
those things scare people, but I wanna
kind of dive in a little bit here.
You know what rebuking really is?
It's for pointing out in your
life where you've fallen short.
Let me just go a little bit, step further.
It's pointing out where you've
missed God's best in your.
That's valuable to me when I read
it that way, when I read it, that
rebuking is about really pointing
out where I'm missing God's best.
I want God's best.
You guys want God's best.
See, that makes me wanna get in the word
cuz I don't mind being rebuked cuz I wanna
be told I'm missing out on God's best.
Then he says this, it is for correcting.
Here's the great part.
God doesn't disappoint out where
you're lacking and say figured.
Sucks for you.
No, he says Now here it is.
It's for correcting.
And he says this to point you in the right
direction, to experience God's best for
your life, to get back on the right track.
And then he goes into for
training and righteousness, right?
To put a plan together.
God's word is a plan to help us
follow in order to become who God
has truly designed us to be in a
perfect relationship with Jesus.
To fulfill our purpose,
to discover hope in Jesus.
And after you've discovered that
hope in Jesus to continue to
discover it day in and day out.
And then as you have to be an inspiration,
a light to the world who hasn't I, I
don't know if that motivates you to
value the word of God like it makes
me, and here's the thing, just so you
know, I've been reading through the old.
And I've been on Leviticus
lately, and I get it.
Some things just don't make sense.
So if you're telling me,
but what about that text?
I go, just ask the Lord when you
get to heaven, why Leviticus?
But there's so much value in the word of
God to give encouragement and direction
to rebuke in a way that is good for us
to correct in a way that is valuable for.
To train us for righteousness, for
right living to to not just live
right so that we can be justified
before God, because that's not it.
We're justified before God because of what
Jesus did, but to live right so that we
can experience God's best for our life
and so that we can make a difference.
This side of heaven, I
tell people this all along.
If you give your life to Jesus
just to experience heaven, you've
missed out on some of the greatest
things that God's given you.
Heaven this side of.
I dearly love people of God.
I dearly love people who are far from God
because I was there once and the burdens
that I felt and the life that I was living
was not God's best, and it's not their
best, and I want them to experience God.
How do I do that?
By training in righteousness,
by training in righteousness.
I don't know about you, but
I wanna make a difference.
In my life, I wanna fulfill my purpose.
Paul came to fulfill his purpose.
He's challenging Timothy
to fulfill his purpose.
And he said this value God's word.
It's simple value, God's word.
So if you look at 17, right?
17 sets it all up.
So that why?
Why do we value God's word?
Why is it profitable?
So that the man, woman as well.
So I'm not leaving you ladies out.
So the people of God, okay, so you
understand this, the people of God may
be complete equipped for every good.
I tell you this, I don't like going
anywhere that I'm not prepared for.
Wanna know why?
Cause I wanna be well-equipped.
I wanna be well aware.
I wanna bring my A game and my best
as a follower of Jesus if we're
looking at being the light of Christ.
And experiencing what God has for us.
It will be through the word of
God and we will bring our best.
And he says this, to be complete
is really to be perfect and know
we're not gonna be perfect this
side of heaven, but to be perfect.
The idea is, is to be ready
for what God has for us.
So Timothy, Saul, through Paul,
that the word of God was profitable.
We see through Timothy and Paul
that the word of God was profit.
. He just needed to remember.
There is power in remembering
cuz it's easy to forget.
It's easy to forget.
It's easy to forget, especially
when we're facing persecutions,
just like Timothy was about to face.
I know this as we kind of finish up
today, what we value in our life.
Most matters, I'm gonna
say you this again.
What you value in your life, most matters.
It will change the tra trajectory of your.
Today, you have the choice to walk outta
here, forget everything that was said,
and continue living the way you were, or,
or there's another option to take what
you heard today and say, you know what?
No more today, I wanna
experience God in a new way.
You still may be a believer in Jesus,
and you haven't experienced value
in God's word as much as you should
because it, you just missed this.
Today, you can be transformed.
You may even be the person that
has valued God's word lately,
and I'm hoping that you have been
spurred on to continue valuing him.
But what we value will change
the trajectory of our life.
I think Paul made a case for us today to
value God's word above all else, right?
His life was an example to us or us, and
it was valuable because he showed us that
God rescued him from all of his trials.
Now just think about this.
I wanna read this to you, Timothy,
watching from a distance saw his
spiritual father, father getting ready
to pass on the baton of leadership
to him, and he saw this, the teacher
review, correct him, provide training.
Do you know the work that
God has for you ahead of you?
He's ready to use you.
To do great in mighty things.
He's ready to transform your life so
that you know him in personal way.
Oh man.
Like, I want us to be ready.
So during this time of invitation, there's
a couple of things that I want you to do.
I, I want you to remember this, and
this is something that I talk about
a lot when it comes to invitation.
If you've been a part of a
traditional church, a lot of times
we talk about invitation and we
place in music and you're kind of
sitting there going, what do I do?
That was, I did that many years.
I always wanna communicate invitations and
opportunity to reflect, say, God, I heard.
What is it that I need to do?
What is it that you are calling me to do?
What is it that you've
revealed to me today?
And then you ask God, because
only God can do it, to transform
you, to let that sink in, to help
you take those next steps, right?
So it's the time of evaluation.
So have you valued God's
word as you should?
Have you allowed those around you to
influence you that have been positive,
to encourage you and spur you on?
Have you ever truly let the
word of God seek deep into your
heart for salvation in Jesus?
Today is the day where I would
say, it's time to get real.
It's time to get real.
So let's take some time to pray.
Lord Jesus, we just thank
you, Lord, for today.
God, we know that your word is truth.
As John 1717 says, your word is truth.
And Lord, as we read today, I
believe these words pop off of,
uh, the, the, the text here.
And, and Lord, I pray that they are
filtering into our hearts today that
has, Paul not only taught the word of
God, but he lived it, and as Timothy
followed after him, may we see a
call today due to that same thing.
May we see the value of the
word of God in our lives?
May we not miss the opportunity
to experience you in a.
As we continue to pray, I, I want you to
continue to just be an attitude of prayer.
I want those in this room
to be thinking about this.
There's never been a time that
you've given your life to Christ,
that you've truly heard the word
of God and responded in salvation.
I want you to know that today
is the day of salvation.
You can give your life to Christ.
There's nothing stopping you
except for you surrendering to the.
So if that's you today,
here's what I want you to do.
I want you to recognize
a couple of things.
First, that you're a sinner.
That you need Jesus to forgive you.
I want you to recognize that apart
from him, you can't be saved.
And then to accept what God has given
you through this forgiveness of sin
and a transformed life in a new way.
If you do those things, you've
given your life to Christ.
So as we continue to
pray and as we continue.
Go into invitation.
I challenge you if you've given your
life to Christ, if you've repented up
your sins, if you've chosen to follow
Jesus, to do one of two things today to
either take one of those cards, fill it
out, and check Mark that you've given
your life to Jesus, or two, I'm gonna be
standing in the back during an invitation
that you come back and you talk with me.
I would love to talk to you more about
how you can give your life to Jesus,
but as we continue in this invitation,
everyone, I'm challenging you to seek the.
And ask the Lord, what is your response?
Lord Jesus, move in a mighty way.
Lord, I pray that those who heard how
to be saved, Lord, that they turn to you
and that they give their lives to you.
Lord, I pray that they are bold
today, that they don't miss out
on the opportunity to experience a
true personal relationship with you.
God, I pray that they have boldness
to fill out a card or come talk.
Lord, I also pray for those in
this room that came in and have
been neglecting the word of God.
Lord, I pray for them today to leave out
with a pep in their step Lord, that they
have the word of God and they begin to
value it in such a way, Lord, that as
they begin to value it, it transforms
not only their life, but their friend's
life, and those that they live around.
God, thank you for your word.
We pray all this in your heavenly name.
Amen.